---
layout: single
title: RBK Journey
categories: bootcamp
date: '2018-06-24 13:31:00 +0300'
published: false
---
The first thing I heard is, "an academic degree is not important". For me, I was just graduated with a master degree after four years of stress and days of reading dozens of papers.
It was as simple as that.
Graduation was not that easy for me, I put time and efforts to reach that moment. After getting the certificate, nothing changed in my life. I've started tracing new opportunities either study or job. The study is the only thing that captured my mind.

One week after receiving my master, I realized that the reality is different than dreams and to survive I should convert knowledge in to actions and theories into touchable projects.

University education can’t lead students to the market, particularly, in the Middle East. Thousands of graduated people cannot find a job, either because of limited industries or lack of skills needed. [Lili Mottaghi](http://blogs.worldbank.org/arabvoices/problem-unemployment-middle-east-and-north-africa-explained-three-charts) illustrated the unemployment problem in the Middle East and North Africa.
I believe this gap deserves more efforts to build a healthy future.

Through my searching process, I found [RBK](https://rbk.org/). The journey started on Feb 2018. I was selected after long assessemnts and complation of 250 hours in [Freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/).

I transferred to Amman to join around 50 trainees from different ages, nationalities, religions, and backgrounds. Despite the differences, we all share common goals; learning, being a good human and reflecting positively on the entire world.
RBK developed my technical skills despite my previous degree in computer science.

 Bootcamps are dense programs that prepare students to become software engineers, and lead them to job market.
This is the promise of RBK that encouraged me to enroll. We got to work hard for 12hrs a day, solve problems, work in teams, and learn rapidly different tools.

I didn’t just got improved technically, RBK developed my self awareness, making me able to spot strength and weakness, as well as clarifying career path.

During the program, I had the chance to work with most of the students through pair programming or working on the same projects. This made me a good communicator and a team player. Adaptation is also another great merit, it makes me able to survive with various environments, people, and resources.

It is worth to mention the equation one in RBK that Mr.[Hugh Bosely](https://www.wise-qatar.org/hugh-bosely) always reminds us.

**GROWTH=STRESS+REST**            [Peak Performance](https://www.amazon.com/Peak-Performance-Elevate-Burnout-Science/dp/162336793X)
    


Here are some pros and cons of my RBK experience:

## I like:

- A loving family environment with caring and support. We collaborated and learned together as well as had fun. We got also daily healthy, homemade food, except on Thursdays :(.

- [Hack Reactor](https://www.hackreactor.com/) material is Well organized, which helped us to learn by constructing pieces together.

- Build the habit of continuous learning and extending knowledge and experience.

- Ongoing support technically, job seeking, and self-marketing. The program ended officially after three months, but we still in contact with the staff and keep getting help until we get a job.



## To improve:

-  The competitive environment, despite they continuously say " we are not here to compete", students, as well as some of staff keep comparing students to each other, either intentionally or unintentionally.

- During the program, we didn't get best practices from people in the industry, It will be even better learn best practices from real projects and learn from previous experiences.

- Teaching is really a challenging job, especially when it comes to logic and thinking. To be a solid software engineer, you need to think in a systematic way with some creativity.  Many of us need to get guidance through the thinking process. Mentors can use two ways for this guidance, either helping you to reach their solution or helping to reach your solution. The difference is really huge, the former makes you a follower, and the second makes you a creator.
