---
published: false
---
Three days ago I arrived Klagenfurt, aiming to pursue my Phd degree at Klagenfurt university in Austria. It's a big decision in my life that may impact my future. Having three years dedicated to solve a research problem, work hard, much writing and reading which make you a phd student. Many students enroll to phd without thinking about the reasons. Some student think of career opportunties ammobined Phd, others do their Phd as a presitige or because their parents encourage them to do it, or just following a community with a majority of Phd graduates.

For me I always don't like to be called as a doctor, it sounds not good for me, I don't know why :), maybe because I don't like labels and titles that seperate people from each other. 

Questioning is a great way to raise self awareness, and I would like to ask my self before spending three years of my life in Phd. The question is Why I want to get into a Phd world?

Here I lise some reasons of pursuing a Phd in my prespective:

- To be an independent researcher, being able to conduct a reseach, writing a proposals, contributing to the sceintific community.

- Becoming a good communicator, phd will enforce me to talk a lot, discussing ideas, presenting my work to different audiance. 

- Develop critical thinking skills, as a phd involves reading other research papers and finding a missing spot in them, as we are always standing on the shoulders of giants, and we don't need to invent the wheels. We need to find where others stoped and find the gap in their research without underestimating others efforts.
